---
title: "Personal AI Usage Policy"
date: 2026-06-09T01:10:49Z
draft: false
description: "A transparent review of how I may/may not use AI in my writings and work"
author: "John Salata"
toc: true
---

These days, it can be difficult to tell what is real online. Generative AI gives people the ability to generate videos, images, audio, and text with extreme ease. While I am not going to comment on my personal views of these technologies, I am going to point out that it is more difficult to tell what is genuinely human online. People will simply ask whatever LLM they prefer and make a LinkedIn Post in seconds instead of taking the time to truly reflect and put in the human effort for some real words.

That is why I will be making a few categories of how AI can be used for written projects and clarifying what AI is used for-if at all-in what I publish on here or anywhere else online.

In short, **anything posted on this blog or my [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/john-salata) or any other social media platform you can find me on will have no AI usage unless otherwise stated.**

I believe it is important to be transparent moving forward on how genuine our words are in the digital space and this system is my way of increasing my transparency.

Furthermore, I believe it is important to accept accountability for anything that I may publish under my name. Even if something is AI generated, I must take responsibility for it and carefully review it for correctness.

## AI-Usage Categories

To keep things simple, I developed four categories of AI-Usage:

* [AI-Free](#ai-free)
* [AI-Reviewed](#ai-reviewed)
* [AI-Assisted](#ai-assisted)
* [AI-Produced](#ai-produced)

### AI-Free

A piece of work is considered to be AI-Free if and only if no LLM was used, consulted, or prompted in the creation of the work. This means that every thought, idea, and word choice was done by a human. AI was not used in the development of ideas, concepts, or formatting at any point of the work. Simple spell and grammar checkers may have been used.

In short, anything labeled AI-Free was created by a human, for a human.

### AI-Reviewed

A piece of work is considered to be AI-Reviewed if AI was used to help revise sentences, structure paragraphs, or rewrite sections of original human work. The key point is that all of the original work was generated by a human. No ideas, topics, or knowledge was originally generated from AI but some helpful changes might have been from AI.

Anything AI-Reviewed must be fully created by a human first and reviewed by an AI second.

### AI-Assisted

A piece of work is considered to be AI-Assisted if AI was used as a starting point for topics, ideas, or other research. This can include AI generated snippets, sentences, or paragraphs. However, a majority of the work must be human created. AI is working as an assistant or an idea generated. Ideas may not be originally from a human.

This is mainly for times where you use AI as a peer to help write something rather than simple review or outright full generation.

### AI-Produced

A piece of work is AI-Produced if a majority of the work is primarily generated using AI. This can include prompting an LLM to generate a report, summarize a messy notes document, or generate a LinkedIn post. Most of the content was written by a human with some major revisions to the work. Very few, if any, of the original ideas or structure was created by a human. However, _the human publishing an AI-Produced work still takes accountability for said work_.

AI-Produced works are your typical AI-generated posts or articles you may see that had very little human effort in creating the work.

## Summary

Unless otherwise stated, every piece of written content that I make from this date forward will be AI-Free. I believe there is value in the human effort it takes to write and create something. If you plan on using these categories as disclaimers on your own works, great! I hope we can all be more transparent on what we post online.
